Lachlan Casey
s3721527
s3721527@student.rmit.edu.au

To all those visiting this page, welcome! Within this profile you will find a bit of information about me as a person, as well as an idea for an IT project that I find interesting conceptually. Let's get into it.

Personal Information

My name is Lachlan Casey, I'm currently student number s3721527 at RMIT, and you can contact me at s3721527@student.rmit.edu.au. Born and raised right here in Melbourne, my family has been here since the days of the first convict waves and the gold rush, stemming primarily from Irish and English ancestry. I spent my primary school years at Holy Trinity in Wantirna South, and my high school time was spent at Emmaus College of Wantirna South, finishing my high school education in 2017. Since then I have worked for a bit, spending time as a janitor for a small office building in Mulgrave, a brief stint in a rubber factory focusing on rubber used within vehicles and solar energy, and as a stagehand for concerts, which is a very unfortunate job to have during COVID times. Throughout my whole life, I've been what some would call a "massive nerd". My main hobbies all tend to involve some element of fantasy writings, whether it be my love of epic fantasy fiction such as Lord of the Rings, the Wheel of Time or the Stormlight Archives; or my many hours spent playing tabletop rpgs, mainly Dungeons and Dragons but also lesser known systems like Call of Cthulhu and Cyberpunk. The escapism and creative freedom inherent to the genre really is something that I think can't be found anywhere else, and fuels some genuinely fantastic communities around the hobbies.

Interest in IT

I have had an interest in IT ever since I built my first computer when I was 15, after saving up about $1,500. At the time I knew very little about computers apart from what we needed for schoolwork so I spent about an hour at Centrecom getting advice from the store workers. Once my parts arrived and I had put it together, finally having a desktop computer of my own that wasn't just for school purposes really did open my eyes to what technology could do. It pushed me to take IT as a VCE course, even though our school's IT course wasn't exactly the greatest, and finishing that my interest in tech only grew. Particularly, I had a real interest in just keeping up with and seeing the advancements in computer tech as limits kept getting pushed and more and more was possible, whether that be in graphical advancements in VFX, or even just how far new processors and graphics cards could be pushed. The evolution of what is possible within film VFX for example, is something that always impresses me, and I spend a lot of time looking into the behind the scenes details of VFX crews. Similarly, the evolution of what is available at a consumer level for pc parts is fantastically interesting to me, as just comparing the power of what was available in home computers over the last couple of decades is somewhat mind boggling.

I chose to come to RMIT for a couple of reasons, most of them being admittedly simplistic. My father studied at RMIT for his degree in electrical engineering, and initially I attempted the same degree but found it wasn't for me. A couple of years later and I reapplied at RMIT for a bachelor if IT, as despite not enjoying the frirst course I tried I did quite like the university itself. Despite the travle time being a little obnoxious, being an hour and a half both ways, the downsides of studying here are greatly outweighed by the upsides, as I feel that the quality of education and the reputation of the institute are worth it. Plus I can use my time on public transport to get work done anyway.

I think fundamentally, I expect to get the base skills required for employment in the IT industry out of these studies. Apart from that, I would certainly aim to learn how to best adapt and learn continously once I leave formal education and enter the field. After all, its not going to be much good if my skills remain stagnant once finish the course. Ideally I would gain the skills needed to know how to best evolve as an IT professional, as well as the various soft skills that will be required in a professional environment. In my few years working I've definitely learnt the usefulness of being able to communicate and work within a team, to name a few, and I would expect to be given the opportunity to further develop these skills at RMIT.

Ideal Job

Service Desk Team Lead, Robert Walters
https://www.seek.com.au/job/56305145?type=standard#sol=150ac5fb47f93189e7aa5eda88b6fe1459a78f3c

The job I have looked at as an ideal job is as a Service Desk Team Lead for Robert Walters. The position of Service Desk Team Lead entails several responsibilites, including managing a service desk team based in Melbourne, leading the team through troubleshooting and reporting, providing a point of escalation for problems that occur outside of typical work hours, and being a point of contact for the UK service delivery team. This position appeals to me for several reasons. Firstly, the pay is attractive, offering $150,000 to $165,000 as well as superannuation, shares and the potential for bonuses. The job is for full time hours with a hybrid work location, allowing for working from home office or on-site as required. Having a hybrid work environment is very important to me, especially after the last few years, and the requirement for availabilty of contact outside of standard work hours is bearable. Additionally, the offering of a benefits package is appealing, although I would definitely enquire as to exactly what those benefits are.I would also enquire beforehand as to the company's policies on diversity in the workplace, if any, as having a diverse group of people within a workplace is very important to me personally.

The role requires a tertiary degree in Information Technology or a similar field, as well as experience and in depth knowledge with ITIL processes, G suite, various operating systems, and cloud based services. Additionally, the role requests that applicants have over five years experience with leading service desk teams of medium size, preferably at a global scale. As the role requires leading a team and working with other teams, a degree of interpersonal skills will likely also be required, although the advertisement doesn't state this directly. I already have some experience working with some technologies listed, having interacted with Windows and MacOS, as well some basic databasing and cloud storage, as well as having a level of interpersonal skills and teamwork due to my prior work experience. The rest of the required experience I plan to gain through completion of my degree, and then entering the workforce with an emphasis on service management, working on/with service desk teams and ideally making my way up to managing teams. This should not only increase my level of familiarity with the required technologies, but also improve my soft skills required for the role.

Personal Profile

The results of these tests, to me, provide a reasonably good indication of the ways in which I interact with other people. I don't personally take much stock in tests like these as a definitive marker of exactly what type of person someone is, but they can give a good idea of what role you'll fulfil in a team. My results indicate information which I somewhat already knew, such as my preferred learning style and some elements of the Big Five test, such as the extroversion scale. As for the classification given by the Myers-Briggs test, I think this gives a fairly reliable way of working out my position within a group and focusing on my strengths. Specifically, as my test places me as a mediator type, this indicates that my strengths revolve around assisting group members and keeping an eye on the bigger picture, whilst weaknesses include poor time management and being prone to procrastination, due to struggling to keep on one single thing at a time.

The main way my behaviour would be influenced by these results is that I will certainly play towards my strengths a lot more when in a group, working to assist others and provide new ideas and alternate viewpoints as we work and progress. Working within a team definitely plays into my reflector learning style as well, allowing me to easily take part in group discussions and get feedback from others. Additionally, looking at the Big Five test the indication of low extroversion is something to consciousely avoid when working with others, in order to make the most of my positive agreeableness and intellect/imagination scores. All in all, the results of these tests make a good highlight of elements to focus on within a team, as well as elements that I need to be aware of in order to facilitate a positive team environment.

When forming a team, these results give a very good idea of strengths and weaknesses, which will allow me to form a team that will cover each others weakpoints and build on our strengths. As an example, I would look for people that are able to stay quite focused on individual tasks and stay on deadlines well, in order to cover my own weaknesses. Additionally, I would look for people that struggle with getting bogged down with individual tasks and other reflector learners, in order to play to my own strengths in a group. I would definitely try and make use of these various personality types when forming a team, in order to cover as much of our bases as possible, and having a variation in learning styles is probaly for the best, although having several reflectors in a team is something I would look for as that learning style works best with multiple in a group.

Project Idea

My project will be the creation of a phone application that provides game masters of tabletop roleplaying games a variety of tools to assist with the role of running the game, from the convenience of their phone. These tools will include combat trackers, npc and monster information, loot tables, quest trackers and more. The app will be system agnostic, instead of being restricted to one single system, this will allow the GM to use whichever system their group is currently playing. This will allow the GM to freely create and manage their content without restrictions, as well as allowing them more freedom in what they can create.

Currently, there exist several apps which provide tools to players for use with a few well known game systems, however, GMs do not have this same luxury, with most of their more sophisticated tools being limited to websites and virtual tabletops. I aim to fill the niche here, so that the GM is no longer restricted to laptop usage when playing. Additionally, the current tools available are often limited to one particular system, meaning that a different app is needed for each game. I would seek to solve this issue, and offer a tool that allows GMs the use of a single app for multiple systems. The market for this is difficult to determine, with there being little data on how many people play ttrpgs, and even less on how many GM for them, however the hobby has exploded in popularity over the last few years, and it continues to grow. This indicates there is definitely a market for more convenient tools for the hobby.

The app will have several key functions, acting as a database for the GM's preperatory materials, custom creations and player information. Primarily, the app will provide GMs with the ability to input information and statistics for whatever they use, whether that be item information, monster statistics or npc information. These creations can be stored and accessed freely, for use as reference or with the initiative and combat tracker. The app will provide a few common layouts for inputting information, as well as providing the ability to upload custom layouts. Any field which would reference a dice roll would provide a button that would automatically roll the appropriate dice and add any modifiers, allowing GM's to not require physical dice, or if the roll would use more than they possess. This creation aspect will also extend to player characters as well, allowing GM's to have player character sheets on hand. Anything that is created will be able to be tagged with some common terms, such as "item", "npc" and "spell". This allows for sorting and categorising of creations, as well as allowing for quicker searches of content.These creations can then be used within the combat tracker, allowing GM's to precreate encounters and events, or create them on the fly. This combat tracker would feature a simple grid and token feature on the top half of the screen, with the bottom half showing the selected creature's information. This tracker will show the key information that the GM will require, such as combat order, current health of all characters, key statistics and available dice rolls. Apart from this, the app will also allow GMs to create custom tables for loot, encounters, npcs and whatever else they wish. This will allow a GM to have on hand a custom made random generator for player rewards, enemy encounters and whatever else they can envision. Additionally, the app will allow people to share their created files and tables, allowing content sharing between different GMs. Other features available would be a quest/story tracker, where GMs could create tables and flowcharts to help plan out and track the progression of various storylines and quests, giving them an easy option for visualising their plans, as well as quick access to edit things on the spot if the need arises. A simple notes section is a necessity for any ttrpg app as well, providing an easily accessible spot to access notes is essential, for before, during and after game sessions. Finally, the app will allow the option to divide up content between different games, so that GMs can run for multiple groups using multiple systems, without getting content mixed up between them. This keeps GMs from being restricted to one groups content at a time, or from having everything they have ever made and used from being mixed together and causing confusion.All these features would provide everything a GM would need to prepare, plan and run a successful game session, all from a phone, as well as providing one single app for multiple systems, unlike what is currently available.

This project will require, at a base level, access to a computer and a phone, as well as a text editor. For this project I have looked primarily at javascript as a programming language, as this seems like it will best fit the project goals. The hardware required for this project is easily acquired, as I own a desktop, laptop and a iphone, and the software required is a text editor for which I have Atom installed. Additionally, one of the features of the program will require access to cloud storage in order to share creations between GMs, for which I have taken a look at both dropbox and onedrive. This is all the tools that the project will likely require, although this list is open to adjustments and additions as needed. For testing purposes I would like to gain access to an android phone as well, in order to catch any issues that may arise between phone types. This should not be too difficult however, as it will only require a friend with an android phone rather than purchasing one for myself.

If this project is successful, this will finally allow GMs to access commonly used tools from a single app, removing the hassle of having multiple tabs open in a browser, and having to store most of their work on a laptop or pc. Additionally, GMs will no longer be limited to just single systems with their tools, opening up more options for experimenting with and playing new systems. This app will open up new avenues for campaign management, providing a much simpler option to GMs to track and control everything. This app will make GMing much easier and easier to access, and will ideally encourage more people to take up the hobby.